# python-api-challenge

## Observations:

This project aims to answer the question "What's the weather like as we approach the equator?"  Through the analysis in this challenge, we observed that:
* Temperature is the warmest near the equator, specifically between -20 and 20 degrees. The lowest (coolest) temperatures have a latitude furthest from the equator (-60 to -40 and 60 to 80).
* Latitude does not appear to have an impact on humidity, cloudiness, and wind speed.
* The higest correlation in the dataset is the correlation between latitude and maximum temperature. In the northern hemisphere, the correlation coefficient of -0.84 indicates a good negative relationship between latitude and max temperature. The temperature is higher around the equator and as you move north away from the equator, the temperature goes down. In the southern hemisphere, the correlation coefficient of 0.72 indicates a good relationship between latitude and max temperature - but it is not as high as the correlation in the northern hemisphere. The temperature tends to be higher around the equator, but in the southern hemisphere there is some variability between -20 and -10 latitude where there are cities with higher temperatures than at the equator.

## Analysis:
Utilizing the CityPy library and the OpenWeatherMap API, we analyzed the weather for approximately 600 cities.  Through this analysis, using scatter plots and linear regression we examined the relationships between:
* Temperature (F) vs. Latitude
* Humidity (%) vs. Latitude
* Cloudiness (%) vs. Latitude
* Wind Speed (mph) vs. Latitude

In addition, we took the weather data generated by the WeatherPy analysis and created a heatmap of locations across the globe with ideal weather conditions such as:
* A max temperature lower than 85 degrees but higher than 70
* Wind speed less than 10 mph
* Zero cloudiness
